And now presenting under the topic of
scripting for system administrators,
AppleScript, Shell, Perl, etc.
John Rennich.
We actually have some people here.
That's exciting.
We had to compete with the
Apple Remote Desktop session,
so nobody get up and
leave because I said that.
And it's Friday afternoon.
So scripting for system administrators.
When they asked me to do this,
they had a huge amount of stuff that
they wanted included in one session.
They said, AppleScript, Shell, and Perl.
I said, you know,
that's an awful lot of stuff
to get done in an hour.
So I don't pretend that I'm going
to be able to teach you everything
you need to know about AppleScript,
Shell, and Perl in 60 minutes or less.
However, hopefully I can give you
enough good examples of fun,
exciting, very interesting things that
I have done with these and that
you can also easily do with them.
I'll primarily be concentrating
as we go through on the number
of interactions that you can
have between one or the other.
Just because you have a favorite
language doesn't mean that you're
eliminated from using the other
language for doing the other things.
And so certainly the deficiencies of
one language can easily be overcome
by the advantages of another language.
So that's what I'll be
concentrating a lot on.
Got a lot of example scripts.
Those will all be
available on my website.
AFP548.com is the website
if you don't know that.
If you don't know what that reference is,
that's fine.
Look on the website.
You can become a better geek.
So all these example scripts will
be available that you can download,
take a look at.
Hopefully you can increase
your own code with it.
So without further ado,
AppleScript, Shell, and Perl,
why you want a script, and some examples.
Because a lot of people that I'm--
I find a lot of bit when I'm consulting
and when I'm training that I tell people,
"Well, that's easy.
That's three lines of shell." "Well,
but I don't want to have
to learn shell." "Well,
then that's four lines
of AppleScript." "Well,
I don't want to have to
learn AppleScript." "Well,
that's a couple lines of Perl." Well,
it really isn't that big of an
impediment to getting something
done that you want to do.
How many are currently scripting?
Great.
So I can get rid of that
whole argument right there.
We don't need to convince
you that you need to do that.
All right.
So some ideas about
when to write a script,
some ideas about what
language to write it in,
and some really cool script ideas,
because that's what we're all
here to learn how to do the sexy,
fun stuff to make our lives a lot easier.
Three major scripting languages
we'll be talking about.
The Camel for Perl, the AppleScript,
and the Terminal for Shell.
You'll see those as we go through here.
Sometimes it's a hard sell
why you want to do a script.
Sometimes you need to convince yourself.
Sometimes you need to convince your boss.
Sometimes you need to convince
someone else why you want a script.
These are a couple good
reasons why you want a script.
It's easy.
You can liberate admins, right?
I think I used to have something
in there about how a script was a
lot less expensive than an admin,
but they got mad at me for that
because admins might take offense,
and we don't want to
put people out of work.
Your fingers definitely can get tired,
but if you have a script,
you never have to do it again.
If you ever know you're
going to have to do it again,
script it.
It's so much more fun to write a script
than it is to continually do the same
thing over and over and over again.
That shouldn't be a hard
thing to have to understand.
No matter how old you are,
you're too old to understand.
You're too old to do the
same thing 15 times in a row.
There's just no reason to have
that level of repetition in
your administration workflow.
Definitely others need
to be able to do it.
Reliability.
A script never gets things wrong once
the script has been written right.
It's not going to mistype
something as it goes in there.
My biggest problem, typing is bad.
Tab completion works great for me,
but it can't do everything,
so a script takes care
of the rest of that.
It's certainly a lot more fun
to write a script than it is
to close out a trouble ticket.
If you can get a script
to close that out,
and you can just use ARD or
something else to push that out,
then you can solve some
problems easily that way.
I came up with a little chart.
Amount of work accomplished
by amount of admins.
Oh, man.
We missed the actual.
The yellow line on top
is admins who script.
The red line is admins who don't.
That lost in graphics, but that's okay.
It's exciting, right?
The more scripting you do,
the more efficient you are.
Then I gave that, and they said, well,
I can't really use those numbers,
because they weren't scientific,
and we didn't want people to think that
I had done an actual study on this.
These are fake numbers,
but you get the idea that if you start
out as an admin that's scripting,
you've already got work that's
being done for you without
you having to lift a finger.
Definitely,
scripting is a very good way to go.
When to script.
There's times that you should script,
and there's times that
you shouldn't script.
When you need to automate the process,
when you need to make sure it's
done the same way every time,
and when you find scripting
more fun than real work.
All great times to script.
I certainly don't want to encourage
anyone to do work when scripting calls.
If you have the need,
if you have that desire,
and you find it fun,
go start writing scripts.
Don't do the real work.
Let the scripts take care
of that for you later on.
Times that sometimes it's
not a good idea to script.
Sometimes scripts just
get way too complicated.
You need to understand
that there's a break point.
After you've put too much effort into a
script and it's still not going anywhere,
or the situation is just too complicated,
don't script it.
Lay back, let somebody do it,
maybe yourself.
And definitely leave
some exciting things.
If you scripted everything,
you're going to be bored.
So a nice mix of both of those is good.
So now we get into the religious war,
all right?
Because I'm sure we have people
that are all from AppleScript,
or bash, or shell, or ZSH,
or any of the other ones that we might
have available to us here on OS X.
So which scripting language?
Which one do you want to pick?
Especially if you're new to scripting,
there's a lot of different
options that you have out there.
Which one do you want to use?
Which one is going to be
more effective for you?
So a couple of thoughts on that.
First of all, these are at least--
this is a non-exhaustive.
But what I found with a
little bit of poking around,
scripting languages that
are included in OS X.
So the three that we're going
to talk about here on the top,
AppleScript, Shell, and Perl-- Python,
Ruby, TCL, PHP,
Expect-- all of these are scripting
languages that are included in here.
So definitely take the one
that you like the most,
the one that works best for you,
and start using it.
All of these can do things.
Some do them better than others.
But almost every script will be able
to accomplish what you're looking
for if you bang at it hard enough.
Some other ones that people like
that aren't included in default
install but are easily to install,
download, package install,
or whatever else.
Smalltalk, Fscript, Frontier, Real Basic,
and so many others.
Slashdot recently had an article
about comparing scripting
languages back and forth.
And there were some 30 or 40 different
options that were on there that they
had run through some code to see who
was the fastest and all the rest.
Important couple of points about
picking a scripting languages.
Does it do what you need?
It seems basic,
but I know a lot of people
that forget this one.
They're convinced that
the script that they know,
the language that they
understand is the one,
all, end all scripting language.
And they don't even
look at the other ones.
So you got to understand if your
scripting language that you're
using doesn't do what you need,
obviously you need another
scripting language.
Do you know the language?
If you don't know it,
it's going to be a lot
harder to script it.
Not that you shouldn't learn a language,
but just keep in mind that
you know what you know.
Will you be able to run
it where you need to?
One of the reasons why
we're talking about Shell,
AppleScript,
and Perl is their default on the install.
If you go out and you
create a real basic script,
you create a small talk
script or something else,
you're going to have to put
that scripting environment
on the other machines.
So depending what your deployment
that you're looking for is,
make sure that you have a scripting
language that's viable for that
deployment that you're looking at.
Most scripting languages will
be able to do most things.
Don't believe the hype, OK?
Scripting languages are very powerful.
And if you work at it long enough,
the beauty of a script is that there's
all kinds of possibilities that neither
you nor the developers of that language
ever really thought about to begin with.
And there's usually a lot more
than one way to do things.
All right?
So if you have a scripting
language that you know that
you're fairly confident with,
familiar with, see if you can do it,
put a little work into it.
Finally, one of the most important
things about scripting.
Some will do it better than others,
some won't, but they'll all get it done.
I tried very hard to stay away
from any kind of speed comparisons
or anything else in here.
Because scripting isn't about speed.
If we wanted to get the
fastest job done as possible,
we'd write an actual
compiled application.
We'd get out Xcode,
we'd write an Objective-C,
we'd compile it,
and it would beat the pants off
of anything that we could do with
the scripting for the most part.
I tried very hard to stay
away from any kind of speed.
If we wanted to get the
fastest job done as possible,
we'd write an Objective-C,
we'd compile it,
and it would beat the pants off
of anything that we could do with
the scripting for the most part.
Scripting is not a hack job.
It's not a Band-Aid.
Scripting is very much an integral
part of your system administration.
It's not just something that you
worked up so that you could be lazy.
Being lazy isn't a bad thing,
but scripting isn't a
hack because of that.
So many scripts are much more
than full-featured applications.
I've written a couple shell scripts
that were like 1,200 lines long.
I go back and I try to understand what
they do and I can't even remember.
All right.
But they're very complete,
very full functional shell scripts.
And they do whatever an
application would do.
I couldn't find an application
that would do that.
Scripting was the least path of
least resistance for getting that.
They're not a replacement
for network administrators.
All right.
You just need intelligence on the job.
And that's a network administrator,
not a script.
You need the ability to
make decisions like that.
I shouldn't have.
That goes without saying.
And again,
not faster than an application,
but almost always faster to develop.
Joel Rennich
Especially, we're not programmers for
the most part in here.
This is scripting for
system administrators,
not for Cocoa folks.
So we can write these scripts,
we can make them very easily readable,
we can make them very easily usable
for our other administrators that
work in our same organization.
Very easy to deploy,
we don't have to get into the
full blown programming language.
Again, we're not going to be faster,
we're not going to be
maybe even more complete,
but we're going to be able to get the
jobs done that we need to get done.
So first off, AppleScript.
One of the important underlying
features of AppleScript is
its interaction with the GUI.
Perl and Shell both have
huge amounts of features,
but they're not going to be
able to interact with the GUI in
the way that AppleScript does.
So let's take a look at
some of the things here.
So it started off as a
language to control other apps.
However, it's completely fully
functional in its own right.
You're going to be able to do
almost anything that you want to
do with an AppleScript that you
can do with the other scripts.
Mostly because we can do a lot
of interaction between them,
And that's what we'll
get into a lot of here.
Closest to spoken English,
a lot of scripters use this
as their gateway language.
When you become a network
administrator and you have fun with
the GUI and it's exciting and man,
those icons are lickable and they
look all great and everything else.
But when you move on to the next step,
into writing your own things,
into being able to do your own
processes and control your entire
environment the way you want it,
AppleScript is many times the entry,
the gateway drug into the scripting.
So it's a great place to start.
Very easy to pick up.
We'll give you some basic ideas.
about how to script,
what scripting will be able
to do for you with a minimum
of effort at the beginning.
It's been in the OS and System 7, right?
It's been around for a long time.
It's going to be there for a long time.
Again,
this gets back to your deployability.
If you have a script and you need
to cover a vast majority of the OSs,
AppleScript is the way to go.
So primarily the only
GUI scripting language,
a couple of features of that.
One, scriptable apps.
If I have an app that has
an AppleScript dictionary,
I can actually use it.
I can tell Photoshop.
Well,
Photoshop's not a good example of that.
Tell Quark.
I can tell Quark to do something.
I can tell other applications to do
something through my AppleScript.
I don't necessarily have to
write an app or really increase
the power of that script,
because I can have another
app that can do it for me.
Plus, it's got the GUI scripting on it.
So that way, I can go in,
I can create dialogues,
it's got the blocks to pop up,
say things.
We'll show you some of that, too.
It's easy to pick up.
Folder action scripts are another
powerful feature of AppleScript.
I can attach an AppleScript to a folder.
Any time a new object
goes into that folder,
I can do something,
depending on what that is.
Spoken English syntax means
it's really easy to learn.
I can do things like tell
this application to do this.
Tell the application finder to
display a dialogue that says,
"Scripting is cool."
That's an AppleScript.
All right?
It really is that easy.
It's really easy for a lot of places.
AppleScript Studio.
Who uses AppleScript Studio?
All right.
I'll show you a couple examples of that.
But it's an incredibly easy
development environment,
a rapid application environment that
you can easily get your development
up and running very easily.
Recordable.
All right?
This is maybe not as useful
as it always should be.
But recordable AppleScript will
get you into the vein of things.
I can hit a record button,
I can do some actions,
I can look at the AppleScript that's
generated from that,
and then I can refine from there.
And especially for those of you who
are just starting out with AppleScript,
it's one of the greatest
ways to get into AppleScript.
Just do a little recording
and see how the syntax works.
Some disadvantages to it.
It's a spoken English syntax.
You get used to the idea that
I can tell application QuarkXPress,
produce next month's catalog,
put all the things I need to in it,
and make it look great.
Obviously, that's not going to work.
That's not in the Quark dictionary.
Well, the make it look great isn't it?
Yeah, the other stuff is.
So you've got to be careful with it.
It's definitely a double edged sword.
There's a lot of times that
you're thinking it sounds right,
but it doesn't work.
It's single threaded.
You can't do more than one
thing at the same time.
That's just the way AppleScript is.
We'll talk about some
ways to get around that.
And it's only on the Mac.
If you're in a mixed environment
and you're looking to deploy a
scripting solution that's going to
work on both the PCs and the Macs,
AppleScript is not your answer.
Not anymore.
Starting with 10.3,
you don't need to be logged
on for AppleScript work.
If that was the case,
you'd be on here on the list.
So here's a sample AppleScript.
This is going to check for enough
free space on your finder volume.
This might be something that
you use when you log in,
just as kind of an idiot
check to make sure that you're
not overwriting your drive,
right?
OS X gets really,
really cranky if your drive gets full.
So this is tell application finder.
If the free space of the startup disk
is less than some really big number,
because I counted it in bits, I think,
then empty the trash, beep,
display a dialog box, ack, I feel full.
Say that I need more room.
So I have three different.
I have an audible.
I have a verbal.
And I have just a beep that
goes on when this happens.
So now I have to know
that something's wrong.
So this is the kind of stuff
that we can do with AppleScript.
Obviously,
this is kind of a silly little example.
But you can see kind of the level
of interaction you have here.
I can empty the trash.
I can beep.
I can say things.
I can display dialogues.
These are all GUI interactions
that AppleScript is very,
very good at.
So let me show you something.
Who's running an OS X server?
Hey, cool.
All right,
so let me go to the demo if I could.
All right, so you've got an OS X server.
Problem is that you need
to get your users into it.
The only thing that you have is
you've got the accounting system,
accounting department,
to give you-- uh-oh, demo.
There we go.
You got the accounting system to
give you a list of first name,
last name, and password.
But man,
this is going to be an awful lot of
pain if you have to go in by hand into
Workgroup Manager and enter all these in.
So you say, well, no problem.
I'll look into the server admin guide.
They've got this great little
utility called DS import export.
Exactly.
Who's written a DS import export file?
You have to get into hex.
You got a lot of fields
and everything else in it.
It's really a pain.
So why don't I write an
AppleScript to take care of that?
So now I have an import
export AppleScript.
I can double click on this.
It says I'm about to run.
I can pick my import file.
Here's my user import
comma separated value file.
Open this up.
It's going to ask me a couple questions.
What's the DNS name of my home?
Home directory server.
Well, we'll just use the reverse
lookup here so that works.
Hit a couple things in here.
Default group, default shell.
Three users were imported.
There's three users in this list,
so that's a good thing.
A little bit of error control there.
Now I've got a user import file
that goes right into documents.
If I look in my documents folder here,
is what you would have had to
have done by hand to create a
working DS import/export file.
All right.
So this is the power of scripting.
Once you do this once,
you're going to sit down,
you're going to read that documentation,
and you go, my lord,
this is not what I ever want to do again.
And so a script can
really make this easy.
So I can open up this AppleScript for you
and show you a couple highlights in it.
And again, all of these are going to
be available on my site.
There's a URL in the end here,
so you're going to be able to see that.
So here, I copied it onto the desktop.
Import AppleScript,
open it up in Script Editor.
tried as hard as I could to put
more comments in it than code.
And I think I did a pretty good job.
But if I didn't,
you can ask me questions about it.
So it goes into here.
There's a couple of things.
We're using dialogue boxes,
open save dialogue boxes,
to interact with the user,
because we've got to put
some information in there.
You end up with this record.
We didn't have to go
down to the command line.
I didn't have to tell you
that you want to run this,
put a bunch of flags into it,
and then run it through a Perl or bash
script or something else like that.
Both of those languages would
have been able to do this.
But now I have a much lower
barrier of entry for admins to
be able to use this application.
So that's one example of
AppleScript that can really help
you out as a system administrator.
If you go back to the slides, please.
An incredibly cool feature of
AppleScript is its ability to call
shell scripts from within AppleScript.
And again,
one of the things that I was talking
about is hopefully I can highlight
on a lot of ways that you can
take maybe existing administration
tools that you already have,
that you've written in bash,
that you've written in Perl,
that you've written in another language,
and use them with the other AppleScripts
or use them within each other.
So this example here is we've got a
finder intrusion detection system.
And what it's going to do is it
actually runs a do shell script command.
If you're familiar with the last command,
the last command returns back who
was the last person to log in.
All right.
So by running this,
we're going to run it into a loop.
It's going to constantly
run the last command.
And if it sees that
somebody new has logged in,
it's going to display a dialogue for me.
It's a really stupid
intrusion detection system.
But it gives you an idea of how we
can use the do shell script command.
We're not even really
calling a shell script.
We're just calling a shell command.
All right.
Just the last command.
We didn't have to write
anything else for that.
But now we can easily
interact with it into the GUI.
If I could be back on the demo again,
please.
So here is my AppleScript IDS intrusion
detection system.
And it's going to sit up here and
it's going to run in the background.
And I'm going to open up a new
finder window or a new shell and I'll
SSH localhost and type in my password.
And then if I look in here, it says, hey,
the user Apple just logged in.
All right, because it's just going
through and getting that last
line of the last command.
All right, so now we have an
intrusion detection system,
hopefully highlighting the interaction
with the do shell script command.
And stuff like that.
We'll do a lot more of this
in another couple of examples.
All right.
Back to the slides.
Great.
Thanks.
So that's the AppleScript IDS.
So some common examples
of AppleScript that you'll
find on your system.
Carbon Copy Cloner.
Who's used Carbon Copy Cloner?
All right.
That's an AppleScript Studio application.
It's written in AppleScript.
It does some shell interaction.
We'll show you some examples of that
in a little bit when I actually will
build an AppleScript Studio app for you.
All right.
iTunes Helpers.
Everybody likes iTunes, right?
And there's a bazillion things
that will show you your word
count or your song count.
We'll display the current
track and your iChat status,
whatever else.
Almost all of those are AppleScript.
And then finally, Print Center Repair.
Anybody using Print Center Repair?
All right.
It's killer for fixing printer problems.
It'll go through.
It'll erase your CUPS directory,
whatever else, your temp files,
and all that other stuff.
Rebuild it.
So that's another example of an
AppleScript Studio application.
All right.
Shell, just like the command line.
Everybody loves the command line, right?
[Transcript missing]
So it's the built-in scripting
function of the shell.
One of the oldest forms of scripting.
You can really get deep into shell,
and it's been out there for
years and years and years.
The beautiful thing about
that is there's thousands,
millions of example code out there.
When doing shell scripting,
you should have to write
very little of it yourself.
After having done a lot of shell
scripting for the last year or two,
I've got my own library.
When I go in to create a script,
I don't even think about
starting off with a blank page.
I start cutting and pasting
from the last one that I used.
It's really nice.
You can do the same thing with
AppleScript and stuff like that,
but shell has a much larger
body of work that's outside.
Some advantages.
Like I said, just like the command line,
only automated.
It's simple.
If you can use the
command line interface,
you can use a shell script.
Just
take a copy of what you're typing in.
You can paste that into a text file.
You can run that as a shell script.
It really is that simple.
Very few terms.
The shell scripting
language is very simple.
There's not a whole lot of different
things that you can do with it,
but you can plug those together
in very interesting ways.
Relatively portable.
Most Unix shell scripts will work on
OS X with little or no modification.
I'm talking to somebody from
developer relations that was
talking about a lot of people coming
from Solaris that wanted to migrate
their Solaris scripts over to OS X,
and they just had to swap out a few
commands and that kind of stuff,
and everything worked.
So if you already have a body
of administrative shell scripts,
those will work very well on OS X.
Some disadvantages.
There's no GUI.
We can't display dialog boxes.
We can't have it say
things or stuff like that.
Part of that is good.
Part of that is bad.
So we can use AppleScript, though,
to pull those things out.
I'll show you an example
of that in a little bit.
Hard to do some shell scripts,
especially when you require interaction.
You have to get into expect and some of
the other shell items if you want to,
for example, pass a password back to
the command line interface,
things like that.
It's very hard to start up an
SSH session that wants to use a
password through a shell command.
So you've got to be careful with that.
Check your shell.
Not all shells can do the same things.
The default shell on 10.3 is bash.
Bash has some slightly
different functionality from
some of the other shell.
The other shells that are out
there from TCH and the other ones.
So be careful when you're
getting deep into it.
However, from the beginning standpoint,
on the entry level, on the face of them,
they're all pretty much the same
for what you're going to be looking
to do when you start off it.
And make sure you specify the
one that you actually want.
I'll show you what that
means in just a little bit.
Because if you think you're using
bash and you end up using TCH and
you're trying to do something,
it might not work.
All right.
So I'll show you how that goes.
So here's a simple mail server backup.
You're running an OS X three server.
You love Postfix.
You love Cyrus.
But what happens when you
try to back up the database?
Well, it's live.
Well, that's not such a great thing.
You know the backing up databases when
they're in use might lead to problems.
So you want to shut down the mail server.
You want to copy over
the backup database.
And then you want to start
the mail server back up again.
That's cool.
But you don't want to be up at
3:00 in the morning to do it.
[Transcript missing]
Another important thing to
see here is the server admin
command on that third line down.
Server admin command is a shell
command that allows you to do anything
that the server admin utility can do.
So instead of me having to worry
about how I know how to stop post fix,
how to stop Cyrus,
how to stop all these other things,
I can just say server admin stop mail.
And the server admin framework
does all that stuff for me.
So I don't need to worry about it.
Thank you, Apple.
All right.
I don't have to do that extra work.
Now I can just kind of glue together
the different pieces and make
something that really works out for me.
So then we use R-Sync.
We sync it from one,
the varspool IMAP file to our X-Raid
because we all have one of those.
Then we actually tar it up.
We tar up our Etsy post fix directory
that has all our configuration
files and everything else in it.
Because maybe you've
looked around the web,
found some articles about how to do spam
and virus controls and stuff like that.
And I don't know where you got those.
And understand that you need
to back those up in case
anything happens to them.
So this script will do
both of those for you.
And then we do server admin start mail.
We're even real nice and
verbose about things.
So we use the logger
command to write commands,
write lines to the logs for the syslog.
And that way we know that we
started and stopped the systems
and everything else like that.
One, two, three, four, five.
Six, seven lines.
And you won't have to wake up at
3:00 in the morning every day.
So from this base, you can take this,
and we could do all
kinds of crazy things.
We could set it up so that
every day of the week,
we back up to a different folder.
All right,
now we've got incremental backups or
differential backups between all of this.
Oh man, things are great.
We can do all kinds of
cool stuff with this.
But this is a very easy,
very simple way to get into this.
And again, this isn't a hack.
All right,
this is doing everything the way
that we needed to do backing up the
mail database and going from there.
But
[Transcript missing]
So I've taken that
shell script that I had.
So if I go to my scripts folder,
there's a mail back.
This one is a little more full-featured.
I'll pop this up a little bit.
And let's see how many
lines we have here.
Shell line numbers.
So we got about 170 odd lines here.
I bet you over half
of those are comments.
All right.
So this goes through,
it backs up not only
the postfix spool files,
but the Cyrus spool files,
asks you if you want to back up
the postfix backup directory.
Plus it has a restore
functionality in here too.
Because once you back it up,
maybe it would be important to
know how to get it back to where
it should have been when you
need to roll those changes back.
So there's a restore
functionality in here,
and now you can feed it a bunch of
switches on the command line and
get through some of this stuff.
But again, this is exciting.
But I don't want to have to go down to
the command line to do this all the time.
Beauty about OS X is
Macs are for grandmas,
right?
Even grandma system administrators.
So I want to be able to let those users
use this script without having to go down
to the command line and mess with it.
So to do that, I've got a little
AppleScript Studio application here.
Get rid of some of this.
Called mailback GUI.
We open it up.
It's got a little setup here.
I can specify a backup directory.
I will just do /temp in here.
I put in my admin password.
Important to note, one of the failures of
AppleScript Studio currently-- and
I haven't hit some of the other sessions
if they fix this-- but is authentication.
So when I pass my password here,
it actually does essentially
a sudo on the command.
[Transcript missing]
It takes a little bit to load up
because I didn't do all the stuff.
But this is some of the
cool things that you can do.
This is the cool Mac stuff.
So this is eventually what
the site's going to look like,
I think.
We're going to do some stuff over there.
But anyway,
so now you have a web browser.
So while that shell script is
working on your mail backup,
you can check out your new web mail,
whatever else that you
want to go through there,
surf the web a little bit,
and go from there.
Because as your
Cyrus database gets bigger,
maybe it takes a little bit longer.
So real quick,
you probably want to see this in Xcode.
And I can show you how
simple this was to set up.
So here's the mailback GUI file.
We'll pop this open into Xcode.
And here's the
AppleScript that runs it all.
And it's maybe a dozen,
two dozen lines of code.
Goes in there essentially just
doing the shell script command
and calling that shell script.
I embed that shell script exactly like
it came out of when I was done with it.
Embed into the resources folder in here.
And then you can go into
Interface Builder and you
can set things up with that.
All right?
Beautiful thing about Interface Builder,
if you don't know about WebKit,
let me go back here and let
me show you all of the code.
for the web browser, right?
But wait, there is no code.
So some of the fun stuff that you can
get into with Xcode and stuff like that.
So really easy to wrap an
Apple Script Studio wrapper,
a complete standalone application.
I can put this onto a disk image,
I can ship it off to people.
They can just double click on it,
fill it out, and go from there.
Since I know it and it's my application,
I can even go into and do things like
already pre-set up the backup path.
So I don't have to type
that in all the time.
Change the default
URL in the web browser.
Maybe you don't want that.
So you can go in and you can set
up a lot of things like that.
So don't be afraid.
This is very easy to get into.
Use this example,
start doing your own stuff,
start taking a look at that,
and very quickly you'll be turning
in your shell scripts into GUIs.
So also goes, like I said before,
if you're migrating over a number of
shell scripts that you had set up on
your Unix or your other platforms,
Apple Script Studio will
allow you to make an easy,
nice GUI wrapper for that.
Wonderful.
If I could go back to the slides, please.
So you saw the backup
and you saw the GUI,
so we've got through there.
So some interaction with AppleScript.
I've got a shell script.
And instead of being
called by an AppleScript,
I want the shell script
to call an AppleScript.
Specific example of this,
about a year ago I was working
with another gentleman to work
up a FileMaker Pro startup item.
If you ever used FileMaker Pro 5.5,
you wanted to launch when
you started up the system.
They fixed that now,
so don't have to worry about it,
but it makes a good example.
Specific example of this,
about a year ago I was working
with another gentleman to work
up a FileMaker Pro startup item.
If you ever used FileMaker Pro 5.5,
you wanted to launch when
you started up the system.
They fixed that now,
so don't have to worry about it,
but it makes a good example.
Maybe you put it in your
applications folder,
maybe you didn't.
I'm a big fan of the Mac.
I want to be able to arrange my
environment the way that I want it to be.
So as an admin,
as somebody that's producing scripts,
I want you to have that
same functionality.
And I don't want to have to tell you
you've got to go into the startup item
and you've got to edit that field and
figure out where your actual install is.
So instead, if you went to the
package installer session,
you probably learned about
post-install scripts.
These allow you to have a
package that installs and
then kicks off a shell script.
That's cool, but my shell script can't
display a dialogue that actually
lets me know what I need to do.
So to get around that,
my shell script can call OSAScript.
OSAScript is a command line way of
actually calling an AppleScript.
So my package installer actually
installs an AppleScript,
then runs the post install script,
which runs that.
A little, eh?
Fair enough.
All right, you with me?
All right.
So that AppleScript then
displays a dialog box.
It says, hey,
why don't you pick where your server
application is for FileMaker Pro Server?
Once we're done with that,
then it passes it back to
that post-install script.
The post-install script goes through
and edits the startup item and makes
sure that it knows where it is.
And so you can see a
quick example of this.
Up at the top is the shell script.
It says "mypath=osascript,"
and then we're calling that
AppleScript that we installed somewhere.
That AppleScript,
which is the second half,
says "application finder activate,
open up a dialog box to choose a file,
please select your application,
set the path to the POSIX path."
That just makes sure that we convert
it from the AppleScript way of
file locations to the shell way.
Return that,
which goes right back to the OSA script,
and then we're done.
So there's the OSA script command.
It was a scripting session.
We had a hard time trying
to find out ways of making
the graphics more exciting.
So you see how that turned to orange?
All right.
So that's about as much excitement
as you're going to find in here.
All right, so let me show you that.
If I could go back to the demo machine,
please.
I tested it on here,
so I need to remove the,
this is our startup disk.
I need to remove the
receipt from it real quick.
FileMaker Pro Server, there you go.
Gone.
All right, so I go into my scripts folder
with all my stuff in it.
I've got a nice FileMaker
Server startup item.
We mount it.
Nice package installer that comes up.
Beautiful little graphics and
stuff that we have in here.
Little RTF with the motion.
Look at that.
All right.
I'm not a graphics guy,
but this was easy.
Select the volume.
I'm going to install.
Ask me for my password.
So now it's actually installing
the payload of the application.
This is the startup item.
This is a couple of other things.
The startup item, however,
doesn't know the location
of the application.
So now I've got a
dialog box that pops up.
Where's FileMaker Pro Server?
I can go to my Applications folder.
I can pick that out.
FileMaker Pro Server isn't on here.
Then it passes it back and it does that.
software was successfully installed.
So now, if I go back to my startup items,
library startup items,
You can see there's an
FMP server startup item in here.
If I look inside here,
here's the actual startup item show item.
: There we go.
That's easy enough.
And it went through and look at here.
Here's a line.
[Transcript missing]
So if we go into the startup,
the package, show package contents.
Inside contents, we've got resources.
Inside resources,
we have the post flight script,
which we can open up here.
And sed gets a little ugly
the first time you see it.
But there's a tiny little sed command.
Sed doesn't get any better.
Tiny little sed command in there that
in my default item that I installed,
I just had a little comment that said,
going to be replaced by script,
which made it nice and easy
to find on the way back.
So I took the output of that AppleScript,
that dialog box that came up,
fed it back to the shell script.
Shell script then goes back in
and changes what I installed.
Beautiful, right?
And I can even go in.
And if I go into my hard drive
again-- and I did a bad thing,
because I kind of left that
AppleScript around-- Startup Items,
FileMaker Pro Server, and in Resources,
Here's an AppleScript,
which we actually feed to OSA script.
So this is the contents
of the AppleScript.
So again, I installed the AppleScript on
the hard drive and the package
installer as part of the payload.
The post-flight ran the
post-flight shell script,
which called OSA script,
to call the AppleScript that I knew where
it was because I installed it there.
AppleScript found out where the FileMaker
Pro server application was going to live,
passed that back to the
post-flight install script,
which then edited the startup item,
and then we're done.
All right?
That was the most complicated
way I could find of having
one call the other and back.
So some really fun stuff
that you can do with that.
And now again, hopefully you can see
that you can easily,
easily, easily put this kind of
functionality into your own scripts,
migrate over your actual shell
scripts that you had before,
put that into here,
and do a lot of work with it.
If I could go back to the slides, please.
Some common examples are shell.
I was looking for ones that were
in the default install here,
so some of these might
be reaching a little bit,
depending on what you
call common examples.
But the Etsy daily, weekly,
monthly scripts,
those are all shell scripts.
Those are the ones that go through,
back up your NetInfo database,
rotate your log files
and stuff like that.
So those are in there.
Startup items are commonly shell scripts.
If you look in system
library startup items,
you're going to find that the
actual executable of a startup item
is almost always a shell script,
because it's nice and simple.
If you've ever used
the disk space monitor,
I did a grep on the system looking
for anything that had been bash
in it or something else like that.
Disk space monitor alerts are there.
And pre-flight and post-flight package
scripts are most always shell scripts,
although you'd see a
lot of Perl lately too.
never use another
scripting language again,
right?
Once you lose, right?
Once you use Perl, you never go back.
Having said that, I stick with shell,
but I understand where
people come from with this.
I started off mostly doing
AppleScript because it was easy--
it was very easy to get into.
Once we started getting into OS X Server,
especially in X1 and X2
when AppleScript wasn't as
robust as it is now in X3,
shell scripting took care of
some of those deficiencies,
stuff like having to be logged
in and things like that.
So shell script I started doing a
lot of work with and having a lot of
fun with the interaction between it.
Some would say the next logical
progression would be to Perl.
Takes a different person
to understand Perl,
so we'll go over that.
Perl is present on pretty
much any Unix system.
So again, you have a wide range of
deployable systems that you can
write a Perl script for and use.
There's many, many, many,
many Perl resources available.
There's a lot out there,
just like shell script.
There's thousands of
sites devoted to this,
thousands of sample scripts
that you'll be able to get to.
And an incredibly active,
and for the most part,
very nice developer community.
Happy to answer questions.
Just don't get them into wars,
and you should be good.
So some advantages of Perl.
It's very much multi-threaded.
You can do a lot of
things at the same time.
Perl's got a lot of
resources available for that.
This is verging on a religious statement,
but I think it's the most
extensible of the three languages,
mostly because there's thousands and
thousands and thousands of modules
that have been written for Perl.
Again,
I hate to pick on Carbon Copy Cloner,
but since Mike's doing the ARD session,
I will.
If you've used ARD, you've used PSYNC.
PSYNC is a Perl app that uses a bunch
of modules that use it in there.
Again,
you could use those same modules to
increase your own Perl application.
So that's one of the
examples that uses that.
CPAN is a Perl repository.
I'll give you a URL for
that in a little bit.
That's got a listing of all these
modules that you can easily get to.
Runs on most systems.
Although it's not in there by default,
you can get Perl environments
for BAC as OS 8 and for Windows.
So even though it's primarily
installed on most Unix systems,
if you want to,
if you have a Perl script that you want
to use with a little bit of tweaking and
some installation on the client side,
you can get this to run on your clients.
Incredibly good for text processing.
I've lately started getting into
helping out a design firm that I was
working with that needs to get rid
of a bunch of files generated by
their rips and stuff like that.
And the file path got so weird
and so complicated that Perl
was the best solution for that.
Because it can easily get in there,
parse out that text,
do a lot of text manipulation
without having to go through
and do it by hand like you might
have to code in a shell script.
And if you've ever done
anything with Perl,
one of the slogans of Perl is there's
always more than one way to do it.
And as you'll find out when you
go looking for Perl modules to do
your one item that you need to do,
you might find 3,000.
So you got to wade through
that a little bit to decide,
hey, which one's better, whatever else.
So there's a little bit of a learning
curve there and maybe a little
bit of a sense of overwhelming
how those all are out there.
Perl disadvantages.
It is probably,
I don't think anyone would argue with
me that it's the most complex of the
languages that we're talking about here.
Not that that means it's hard to learn.
It's just that there's a lot more
syntax that you need to get used to.
There's a lot more commands.
There's a lot more of statements
that you can get with.
So you need to understand
that before getting into it.
It's not something that you
can just pick up a visual quick
start guide to and be writing a
lot of Perl within a day or two.
It might take you three or four days.
And to get the really good stuff,
take you a little bit longer than that.
But there is going to be
a bit of a learning curve.
You'll actually have to think.
With AppleScript,
we can do some recording
and stuff like that.
We don't have that
functionality with Perl.
So again, there's a little more into it.
And there's more than one.
There's only one way to do it.
So when you approach a problem with Perl,
if you go looking on some of
the lists and stuff like that,
you're going to find
18,000 different ways.
And you have to kind of filter
through that a little bit and say,
really, which one is the best way?
All right, here's a simple Perl script.
I wrote an application
that generated SSH tunnels.
It was an AppleScript Studio application.
Problem with it was,
is once it calls the do
shell script command,
it would have to wait for that do
shell script command to return before
the AppleScript Studio application
actually went back to being operational.
So one of the ways around this
was to actually wrap my shell
command into a Perl script that
would actually demonize itself.
So this is one of the examples I could
find of Perl that I would have written
that did something kind of sexy.
So it demonizes itself.
All right, here's a simple Perl script.
I wrote an application
that generated SSH tunnels.
It keeps that SSH tunnel
open as long as it needs to.
And the AppleScript Studio application
had a return because this application,
this Perl script had spun off
and had kind of gone on its own.
So the AppleScript Studio part
was happy to go back to it.
There we go.
See that action?
Difference between this
and a shell script,
it's just text.
It's different text, but it's just text,
is the fact that we're using user bin
Perl here instead of bin bash or one
of the other shells we might have had.
Here we have a Perl script demo.
Auto printer setup.
Is Mike here from Purdue?
Maybe not.
This is a Perl script that
an admin from Purdue set up.
And let me show you a problem.
I'm a user.
I sit down at the lab machine.
I say, oh, no printers.
Let me add a few.
I want to add an LPR printer.
It's at my house.
This isn't my home IP,
but we'll just type in something here.
It's going to be a generic PostScript.
I don't want to get anything fancy there.
All right, generic postscript,
and I add it.
Okay, cancel.
Do I have a printer in here now?
There you go, generic PostScript printer.
All right.
Problem is, the next user behind me isn't
going to want this printer.
I'm in a lab situation at a university.
I don't have the luxury of having an
OS X server and work group manager
that I can push down and force
users into different printers.
So instead,
I kind of got to do this myself.
Perl to the rescue.
We've got an application
called Printer Setup.
I'll pop all these open
so you can see these.
going and it is a Perl script that
looks inside two different files.
So here's the Perl script and again you
can take a look at this and go through
it and see some of the stuff and it
reads in from two different files.
One is a printer definition file
which understands what printers are
available to my client machine and the
other file is a printer mappings file.
This says hey if this machine's
IP address is in this range we're
gonna install these printers on IT.
So two different data files,
both in plain text.
And we're just going to
use the LPR commands,
the LP commands, to set up print queues
and stuff like that.
So let me show you a
quick example of that.
So I'm the lab admin.
I come to this machine.
I say, why do they keep adding printers?
Go down to the command line.
I've got to run this as root and volumes.
There you go.
Let me just drag that in, right?
This is too much work.
[Transcript missing]
Beautiful.
Now I go back to the printer setup.
Hey, it's not that 17 IP address
LPR machine anymore.
Now we've got the WWDC demo machine.
Come on.
There's something for that, right?
It went in.
The Perl script goes in,
it deletes your current
folders that you have,
it looks in the data files,
finds out what printers
you're supposed to have,
and adds those printers
in with the LP commands.
Nice example of what you can do
with Perl and some of the stuff
that you can get done with it.
If I could go back to the slides, please.
Common examples of Perl,
part of the server setup
process runs a Perl script that
goes through and does that.
If you have a website with an
SSL certificate that's actually got
a passphrase associated with it,
when you launch Apache,
it actually calls a Perl script
that pulls that out of it.
Disk Space Monitor does this.
CGI scripts on web pages, right,
the vast majority of
those are probably Perl.
I'll go on a little bit
of limb and say that.
So examples of Perl
that you'll find around.
All right, some links that you can go
to for more information.
Here's the URL for the sample scripts.
So www.afp548.com@wwdc.zip.
Those are out there now.
So you'll be able to grab those.
Internet and web documentation,
you can go to the ADC home,
some of the other stuff there.
Here's some man pages for bash, Perl,
and others.
Then we've got some example sample
script sites that you can go to
and download some stuff from.
Notice for shell, we go to Google.
I couldn't find one that was
as inclusive as I wanted it,
and I didn't want to put 30 up there.
So literally, when I go looking for
shell script examples,
I Google bash, printer setup,
whatever else, and go through there.
And I'll be able to find that.
So thanks.
That's my site.
My email is supposed to be up there,
but it's maxroll@afp548.com.
If you go to the site, you'll find it.